# How Apple Won (How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Fruit)
[Apple](https://apple.com) aka [APPL](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/AAPL/) has recently taken over my computing world.
This didn't happen all at once, and I'm not particularly happy about it.
This post is meant to explain some of the good things they've done and how the greater technology world can benefit from learning from them.

Note: I am by no means an apple fanboy.
I will gladly run the best platform out there.
I'm not writing this to say that apple is the end-all be-al of computing, or am I assuming that I know absolutely everything.

## iPhone
The device I (and probably you) use most of all is the [cellular telephone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_phone).
Mine is an [iPhone 13](https://www.apple.com/shop/buy-iphone/iphone-13) Mini in Midnight with their leather [MagSafe wallet](https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MM0Y3ZM/A/iphone-leather-wallet-with-magsafe-midnight) attached to the back.
I had previously been switching between iPhone and android for the last decade, but this was the first time I made a direct iPhone to iPhone switch.

One of the reasons is software longevity.
The iPhone works just as well 3 years in as it did on day one.
Whenever I get an Android, I am perfectly satisfied with it and find that the features are in many ways more advanced than the iPhone's, but am sorely disappointed with the device after a software update ruins it.
I'm not saying that Apple has never put out a stinker of an update, but it feels like with Android phones, they go out of their way to forget about paying customers after the sale has been completed.
This is not a consequence of continually going with one brand as I have used Google and Samsung's smaller flagship models, and have not heard much better from the likes of other companies.

Another reason is repairability.
There are phones out there like the [FairPhone](https://www.fairphone.com/en/), which offers a phone that can be repaired easily and is expected to last for 5 years, but I find the iPhone to be more repairable.
It's not because it is physically easier to open and replace parts, but because it's easier for me to go from broken phone to fixed phone.
Every repair shop fixes any iphone from the last few years within a couple of hours, and with Apple Care, I can go into any Apple Store and have my phone fixed or replaced.
This is not true of the competition where there are 9000 models each with their own part numbers for every part that are difficult to get a hold of in a short amount of time.
When my phone breaks, I need it fixed NOW, not in 2 weeks when some random guy from ebay sends me probably the wrong part. 

The final reason is that it just works.
I tinker with all of my things, but the iPhone is one that I don't play with.
Maybe I've lost some of my tenacity for messing with things, but I really don't want to bother with Jailbreaking my Iphone to get an alternative app store that doesn't do anything.
Yes, it's anti-consumer that you are locked in the apple ways of doing things, but for a device that is required to "just work", it's probably much better that I don't tinker.
I realize that this reason for chosing Apple over Android is simply my own lack of self control combined with my own laziness, but this is my list, and you are free to write your own.
All I know is that if Android updates don't ruin my phone, I will.
This doesn't happen on my iPhones.

## iPad
I don't have to work as hard to prove this one. No one uses android tablets. I honestly can't tell you the pros or cons of them. I was an early android tablet adopter (shout-out to the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1), but the android operating system simply cannot compete with the ipad os. Windows tablets exist (and have for a while), but full-fat windows is continuaally growing to the size that it's unuseable on a tablet, and outside of 8.1 or whatever, they have never made an honest effort to improve the tablet UI. Maybe I'm just ignorant, but I haven't been impressed by what I've seen. 

I think the tablet exists in a weird space between phone and computer, where it doesn't necessarily need to do everything a computer can do, though it's not workable to treat it like a very large phone. I think ipad os leans too far in the direction of phone, but still has some multitasking features like splitting the screen into two screens for multitasking. When I plug in a mouse and keyboard, the gestures on the mouse do a decent job of emulating the multitasking experience I'm used to.

## MacBook
I use the MacBook pro 14" for most of my daily work and play. When it comes to laptops, I like to have power, but I NEED to have longevity. If I have to plug in my laptop for half the day, it's unuseable. A laptop that requires me to pull out a charger more than once a day is just a portable workstation. This knocks out all of the gaming laptops from my consideration. For me to develop on it, a laptop needs to be relatively quiet and snappy. I'm not going to sit around all day waiting for my go files to compile. The m1 (and m2) chips provide more than enough power to do everything I need them to do without sacrificing battery life or speed too much. There is no other comparable arm offering in the windows world, and if there is, I don't want to spend hours going over all of the lower end options across 4 manufacturers to find one of the 3 good models still out there.

Look, for example, at the ThinkPad.
You used to be able to buy more-or-less any thinkpad and be sure that you got a good computer.
Now, you have to make sure to avoid the 11e ones since they are chromebooks.
I was about to go through and name all of the serieses and their variations, but I don't even know.
From their website, you have the X1, P, E, Z, T, X, L, and C series to choose from.
I literally have no way to tell which ones are good and which ones are crap without looking up every serires, and then every model within the series.
I know some are okay, and some are bad, but I don't want to spend 6 hours figuring this out.
Above all of this, I have no way to tell which ones are solid in the hand without buying them.

Well, what about Dell?
They suffer from the same problems as the ThinkPad.
The only difference is that I can go to the local BestBuy and pick up their computers.
They all feel like crap in the hands.
They have better, more business oriented models, but us mere  mortals aren't allowed to even look at them before we buy.

The apple experience on the other hand is easy.
They have 2 laptops. You can get the MacBook Air, or you can get the MacBook Pro. 
They have the same one processor that sounds like it's pretty good.
You can go into an apple store and pick up and hold the computer

I'm not even saying that the Apple is the best computer out there. My point is that I have no idea which computers from the other brands are good. 
They've dilluted their own brand so much that to figure out which skus are good, I have to wade through a zillion online reviews only to be left with some flexing plastic crap if I make the wrong decision. With the apple one, I know that it's going to feel more or less like the ones I know from the past. 


## What we can learn
