# Nate's guide to laptop stickering

## Introduction
The single most important thing you can do to differentiate yourself from the non-technical world and enshrine your status as the top engineer/data-scientist/whatever is to put stickers all over your computer. 
This is an undesputed FACT, nearly a law of physics.
This guide serves as a comprehensive guide to all things laptop stickers

## Philosophy
Many people start the stickering process willy-nilly without putting thought into it.
This always leads to a sub-standard stickering.
You must think of the energy you are trying to put out into the world and perfectly represent it in the way you adorn you personal (or business) computer.

If you are an indie hacker looking to break into every "secure" system known to mankind, you have to represent that.

If you are a crypto gazillionaire, you have to represent that. 

If you are a Fortune 500 worker loyal to your shareholders to the end, what are you doing on a silly article about putting stickers on your laptop? Go read a business journal.


## Acquisition 
There are plenty of places on the web to get stickers, but the ideal place to get them is conferences. 

### Conferences
Conference acquired stickers will be the most genuine representation of who you are and what you're into.
The problem is that they generally end up representing technologies you don't care for or necessarily even use.
You will end up with either a laptop full of stickers you don't care about, or a sparse layout.
Conference gotten stickers should be the first you reach for when beginning a laptop stickering session, and should take a prominent space on the top layer if you are going for a dense layout.

### Bespoke
Making your own stickers can be a rewarding experience, but will be expensive.
Online stores generally have minimum order quantities which will leave you paying far too much for far too many stickers.
You may be able to get a group of your 30 best friends to each buy 30 stickers they've designed, but I don't know anyone who would read this blog with 30 friends skilled enough to design their own laptop-worthy sticker.

### Online
This is where you will ultimately get the bulk of your stickers if you don't want to save up a stock for many years.
Amazon, AliExpress, and plenty of smaller shops sell stickers of dubious legal legitimacy. 
I like to buy the variety packs to make a good base layer if going for a dense layout, or buy an esthetic based pack for use on a more "thematic" layout.
One mistake I see sometimes is to buy a tech sticker pack and place them all indiscriminately.
The following stickers don't go well together (without a strong opinion defending your weird choice)

- Windows and Arch Linux
- Haskell and Go
- Swift and C#
- ReactJS and HTMX

## Filtering
Once you decide you've gotten enough of a stock to begin stickering your laptop, you'll need to sort and filter your stickers. 
If you are going sparse, and you don't have much stock to choose from, you can skip right to the layout section below.
Otherwise, it's time for the hardest part.
Dump out all of your stickers on a big (or small) table, and start combing through them.
You need to lay your eyes on each one at least once to get a sense for what you have. 
Put them in 4 piles

1. Top tier - These are the stickers that look the best, take up the most space, and you are happy to have featured prominently.
2. Good ones - These stickers are ones that you like, but can't take first class placement. These are the smaller ones or the ones you are only have a tangential relationship with
3. Cannon Fodder - Stickers you don't mind having around, but you wouldn't miss. If you go for a dense layout, they will be the base layer, and if you are going for a layer with more room for breath, you'll want to put them in the empty spaces after you've found a home for the good ones
4. Bad stickers - This stack should be in the trash. You won't use them.

## Layout
This is the most important stage of your enstickerification journey.
Do not rush hastily into this stage of your experience.
Remember to be calm and steadfast in your planning.

1. If you want a very dense layout, throw down a base layer of your cannon fodder to get good coverage. If you aren't doing a dense layout, move to step 2
2. Pick out a small number of your most important stickers from your filtering step and (without unsticking the backs) and put them in the most prominent locations. Put your best, most favorite sticker right in the middle where it will catch the most eyes.
3. Pick out the remaining of your top tier (and dip into the second tier) to fill up the empty space.
4. Keep re-organizing your stickers until you find a cohesive layout that represents who you are and your status right at the top where you belong
5. Peel off the backs and commit your masterpiece

Congratulations! The process is done.

## Payoff
Gaze upon your new creation!
You have created a new unique piece of art to be proudly paraded around all the coffee shops and offices lucky enough to be graced by the presence of someone as unique and interesting as you. 
Your co-workers, superiors, subordinates, friends, family, enemies, and strangers will all be shocked and amazed when they see your computer tucked beneath your arm walking around wherever you go. 
The barista will gasp in amazement when you crack that bad boy open to browse twitter. 
Congratulations, you are now the King or Queen of your domain.


## Long-term
Do not fear upgrading your computer.
After a few months/years/decades of using your bestickered laptop, you will find it hard to part with it. 
Luckily, though, by the time you've worn out your computer, its resale value will be indistinguishable from $0.
Remove the top cover, and hang it on your wall as an eternal memorial of who you were at the time of the enstickerment. 
Make sure to bookmark this page (or star this repo) so you can find your way back to this guide when that time comes. 

## Final note
I nearly went and took a bunch of pictures to do help explain the process, but I think the images found in your mind at each step will do a better job of explaining what's going on than anything I could conjure up. 
